KFP - Updated the documentation regarding metrics (#2171)
kubeflow/website: content/en/docs/pipelines/sdk/pipelines-metrics.md

 
## Export the metrics dictionary

> To enable metrics, your component must have an output called "MLPipeline Metrics" and return a JSON-serialized metrics dictionary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable metrics, your component must have an output called `MLPipeline Metrics` and return a JSON-serialized metrics dictionary.
```

uploaded metrics as a visualization in the **Runs** page for a particular
experiment in the Kubeflow Pipelines UI.
 
## Export the metrics dictionary

> To enable metrics, your component must have an output called "MLPipeline Metrics".

Reviewer: Suggestion:

- I think this should be surrounded by back ticks:

```diff
- "MLPipeline Metrics"
+ `MLPipeline Metrics`
```

Author: Reworded the sentence.

> JSON-serialized metrics dictionary should be returned from that output.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

- Refactor (from passive to active voice) "JSON-serialized metrics dictionary should be returned from that output":

```suggestion
Then, that output should return a JSON-serialized metrics dictionary as follows:
```

Author: Done.

```Python
from kfp.components import InputPath, OutputPath, create_component_from_func

def produce_metrics(mlpipeline_metrics_path: OutputPath('Metrics')):
  import json
  
  accuracy = 0.9
  metrics = {
    'metrics': [{
      'name': 'accuracy-score', # The name of the metric. Visualized as the column name in the runs table.
      'numberValue':  accuracy, # The value of the metric. Must be a numeric value.
      'format': "PERCENTAGE",   # The optional format of the metric. Supported values are "RAW" (displayed in raw format) and "PERCENTAGE" (displayed in percentage format).
    }]
  }
  with open(mlpipeline_metrics_path, 'w') as f:
    json.dump(metrics, f)

produce_metrics_op = create_component_from_func(
    produce_metrics,
    base_image='python:3.7',
    packages_to_install=[],
    output_component_file='component.yaml',
)
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Please include the component.yaml example as well, for those cases where the component yaml is manually created.

Author: Great suggection. Done.

> See the 
> [full example](https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/blob/master/components/local/confusion_matrix/src/confusion_matrix.py).

Reviewer: Suggestion:

- Add an explanation of the example, so that: "...[full example]... of a program that generates confusion matrix data from prediction results."
- For accessibility, swap "See the..." with "Refer to the..."
```suggestion
Refer to the 
[full example](https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/blob/master/components/local/confusion_matrix/src/confusion_matrix.py)
of a program that generates confusion matrix data from prediction results.
```

Author: Done

The metrics file has the following requirements:

> * The file path must be "MLPipeline Metrics" or "MLPipeline_Metrics" (case does not matter).

Reviewer: Suggestion:

- File paths should be surrounded by back ticks:

```diff
- "MLPipeline Metrics"
+ `MLPipeline Metrics`
...
- "MLPipeline_Metrics"
+ `MLPipeline_Metrics`
```

)
```

> An example Lightweight python component that outputs metrics dictionary by returning the metrics dictionary from the function:

Reviewer: Suggestion - syntax fix; rephrasing:

```suggestion
Here's an example of al lightweight Python component that outputs a metrics dictionary by returning it from the function:
```

]):
  import json

  accuracy = 0.9
  metrics = {
    'metrics': [{
      'name': 'accuracy-score', # The name of the metric. Visualized as the column name in the runs table.
      'numberValue':  accuracy, # The value of the metric. Must be a numeric value.
      'format': "PERCENTAGE",   # The optional format of the metric. Supported values are "RAW" (displayed in raw format) and "PERCENTAGE" (displayed in percentage format).
    }]
  }
  return [json.dumps(metrics)]

produce_metrics_op = create_component_from_func(
    produce_metrics,
    base_image='python:3.7',
    packages_to_install=[],
    output_component_file='component.yaml',
)
```

An example script-based `component.yaml` component:

```yaml
name: Produce metrics
outputs:
- {name: MLPipeline Metrics, type: Metrics}
implementation:
  container:
    image: alpine
    command:
    - sh
    - -exc
    - |
      output_metrics_path=$0
      mkdir -p "$(dirname "$output_metrics_path")"
      echo '{
        "metrics": [{
          "name": "accuracy-score",
          "numberValue": 0.8,
          "format": "PERCENTAGE"
        }]
      }' > "$output_metrics_path"
    - {outputPath: MLPipeline Metrics}
```

> Refer to the [full example](https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/blob/master/components/local/confusion_matrix/src/confusion_matrix.py) of a component that generates confusion matrix data from prediction results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the [full example](https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/blob/master/components/local/confusion_matrix/src/confusion_matrix.py) of a component that generates a confusion matrix data from prediction results.
```

> * The output name must be "MLPipeline Metrics" or "MLPipeline_Metrics" (case does not matter).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The output name must be `MLPipeline Metrics` or `MLPipeline_Metrics` (case does not matter).
```

)
```

> Here's an example of al lightweight Python component that outputs a metrics dictionary by returning it from the function:

Reviewer: Ah - typo 🤦‍♀️ My bad, let's do it again:

```suggestion
Here's an example of a lightweight Python component that outputs a metrics dictionary by returning it from the function:
```
